shared/cloud-block/serviceVariables/aws.md, before:


### SQS variables
These variables are specific to use of the AWS SQS service.

| Variable         | Notes                                                                             |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|AWS_SQS_QUEUE_NAME|Name of the queue. Identified as `<cloud-topic>` in the architecture diagram above.|
|AWS_SQS_REGION    |AWS region in which the queue is defined                                           |
|AWS_SQS_ACCESS_KEY|IAM access key ID                                                                  |
|AWS_SQS_SECRET_KEY|IAM secret key for access key                                                      |

See the [SQS Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/welcome.html) for help setting up the queue service. See the [IAM User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/index.html) for help setting up the identity. The IAM User must at least be assigned the SQS *SendMessage* permission.

Commit message:

Add cloud reference page
Change-type: minor
Signed-off-by: Ken Bannister <kb2ma@runbox.com>

shared/cloud-block/serviceVariables/aws.md, after:


### SQS variables
These variables are specific to use of the AWS SQS service.

| Variable         | Notes                                                                             |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|AWS_SQS_QUEUE_NAME|Name of the queue. Identified as `<cloud-topic>` in the architecture diagram above.|
|AWS_SQS_REGION    |AWS region in which the queue is defined                                           |
|AWS_SQS_ACCESS_KEY|IAM access key ID                                                                  |
|AWS_SQS_SECRET_KEY|IAM secret key for access key                                                      |

We assume you define the variables as balena Environment Variables. You also may define them in a Secret store as described in the cloud block [Overview](/learn/develop/integrations/cloud-block-overview/aws).

See the [SQS Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/welcome.html) for help setting up the queue service. See the [IAM User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/index.html) for help setting up the identity. The IAM User must at least be assigned the SQS *SendMessage* permission.
