pages/learn/manage/device-statuses.md, before:

---
title: Device statuses
excerpt: Determine the status and connectivity of a device
---

# Device statuses

The application overview page shows the status of each device in the application.

<img src="/img/common/main_dashboard/application_device_status.png" alt="Application device status" width="40%" >

Each device can have one of the following statuses:

| Status            | Description                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Online            | The device is online and is connected to the VPN or has recent API communications.                                                                              |
| Configuring       | The device is applying OS configuration.                                                                                                                        |
| Updating          | The device is updating to a new application release.                                                                                                            |
| Offline           | The device is offline and is not connected to VPN and has not any recent API communications.                                                                    |
| Post Provisioning | The device has been [provisioned][device-provisioning] but has not yet come online.                                                                             |
| Inactive          | The device has been [deactivated][deactivated] or has been [preregistered][preregistered] but has not yet connected to the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} API.        |
| Frozen            | The device has been frozen because it's outside the organization's allowance, or is in a paid [application type][application type] on a free tier organization. |

## Device connectivity

![Device connectivity indicators](/img/common/main_dashboard/device_status.png)

In addition to the device status, there are indicators to show if the device is having any partial connectivity issue. These indicators can be used to identify common issues, such as a firewall blocking VPN traffic or an inability of the device to communicate with the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} API.

For example, in case a device is connected to the API only, indicated by a status of Online (Heartbeat Only), you may still see logs being sent. This case indicates that the device is unable to connect to the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} VPN.

**Note:** If the device is powered off or loses all network connectivity, it will remain in the Online (Heartbeat Only) state for an extended time based on the device [API polling interval][poll-interval].

[deactivated]: /learn/manage/billing/#inactive-devices
[host-os-updates]: /reference/OS/updates/self-service/
[poll-interval]: /learn/manage/configuration/#variable-list
[device-provisioning]: /learn/welcome/primer/#device-provisioning
[preregistered]: /learn/more/masterclasses/advanced-cli/#52-preregistering-a-device
[application type]: /learn/manage/app-types

Commit message:

Added notes to explain Heartbeat and VPN Only Online status types
Change-type: patch
Signed-off-by: Miguel Casqueira <miguel@balena.io>

pages/learn/manage/device-statuses.md, after:

---
title: Device statuses
excerpt: Determine the status and connectivity of a device
---

# Device statuses

The application overview page shows the status of each device in the application.

<img src="/img/common/main_dashboard/application_device_status.png" alt="Application device status" width="40%" >

Each device can have one of the following statuses:

| Status | Description |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Online | The device is connected to the VPN and is communicating with the cloud within the correct interval. See [device connectivity](#device-connectivity) for more details on the possible Online states. |
| Configuring | The device is applying OS configuration. |
| Updating | The device is updating to a new application release. |
| Offline | The device is offline and is not connected to VPN and has not any recent API communications. |
| Post Provisioning | The device has been [provisioned][device-provisioning] but has not yet come online. |
| Inactive | The device has been [deactivated][deactivated] or has been [preregistered][preregistered] but has not yet connected to the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} API. |
| Frozen | The device has been frozen because it's outside the organization's allowance, or is in a paid [application type][application type] on a free tier organization. |

## Device connectivity

![Device connectivity indicators](/img/common/main_dashboard/device_status.png)

In addition to the device status, there are indicators to show if the device is having any partial connectivity issue. These indicators can be used to identify common issues, such as a firewall blocking VPN traffic or an inability of the device to communicate with the {{ $names.cloud.lower }} API.

| Status | Description |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Online (VPN Only) | The device is connected to the Balena VPN which provides remote SSH connections. |
| Online (Heartbeat Only) | The device is sending requests to fetch the target state within the configured [API polling interval][poll-interval]. |

**Note:** If the device is powered off or loses all network connectivity, it will remain in the Online (Heartbeat Only) state until the last target state fetch exceeds the polling interval.

## Debugging Device Status

If you find your device to be displaying a status which is unclear even with the above notes, visit the [device status][debugging-masterclass#device-status] section in [device debugging masterclass][debugging-masterclass] for more information and what it means for your application.

[deactivated]: /learn/manage/billing/#inactive-devices
[host-os-updates]: /reference/OS/updates/self-service/
[poll-interval]: /learn/manage/configuration/#variable-list
[device-provisioning]: /learn/welcome/primer/#device-provisioning
[preregistered]: /learn/more/masterclasses/advanced-cli/#52-preregistering-a-device
[application type]: /learn/manage/app-types
[debugging-masterclass]:/learn/more/masterclasses/device-debugging
[debugging-masterclass#device-status]:/learn/more/masterclasses/device-debugging#12-Device-connectivity-status
